Basically, all scripting languages are programming languages. The theoretical difference between the two is that scripting languages do
not require the compilation step and are rather interpreted. For example, normally, a C program needs to be compiled before running
whereas normally, a scripting language like JavaScript or PHP need not be compiled.
 
Generally, compiled programs run faster than interpreted programs because they are first converted native machine code.
 Also, compilers read and analyze the code only once, and report the errors collectively that the code might have, but the interpreter 
 will read and analyze the code statements each time it meets them and halts at that very instance if there is some error. In practice, 
 the distinction between the two is getting blurred owing to improved computation capabilities of the modern hardware and advanced 
 coding practices.
 
Another point to be noted is that while classifying a language as scripting language or programming language, the environment on 
which it would execute must be taken into consideration. The reason why this is important is that we can design an interpreter for
C language and use it as a scripting language, and at the same time, we can design a compiler for JavaScript and use it as a
programming language. A live example of this is V8, the JavaScript engine of Google Chrome, which compiles the JavaScript code 
into machine code, rather than interpreting it.
 

Some scripting languages traditionally used without an explicit compilation step are JavaScript, PHP, Python, VBScript.
 
Some programming languages traditionally used with an explicit compilation step are Java, C, C++.

according to java.com :

 JavaScript does not create applets or stand-alone applications. In its most common form, JavaScript resides inside HTML documents,
  and can provide levels of interactivity to web pages that are not achievable with simple HTML.
Key differences between Java and JavaScript:

    Java is an OOP programming language while Java Script is an OOP scripting language.
    Java creates applications that run in a virtual machine or browser while JavaScript code is run on a browser only.
    Java code needs to be compiled while JavaScript code are all in text (needs to be interpreted to environment).
    They require different plug-ins.

A compiler is computer software that transforms computer code written in one programming language (the source language) into 
another programming language (the target language). Compilers are a type of translator that support digital devices, primarily 
computers. The name compiler is primarily used for programs that translate source code from a high-level programming language
to a lower level language (e.g., assembly language, object code, or machine code) to create an executable program.[1]